inspect: resurrect the inspect command (#9655)
tendermint/tendermint: docs/tools/debugging/pro.md

---
order: 2
---

> # Debug Like A Pro

Reviewer: A couple of things about this page:
1. Is this page linked to from anywhere else? I can't seem to find a link to it anywhere.
2. This page seems to be written in the style of a blog post, which seems kind of out of character given the nature of the rest of the documentation in the docs site. I'd recommend perhaps paring this down a bit to make it more appropriate as technical documentation.

Reviewer 2: I think this was initially written by Anton a long time ago (and was a blog post as well as part of tendermint docs)

Author: Removed. there is sufficient information in the [debugging.md](https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/blob/0e123ede6bf484cb5e637528a8cde74040ea52de/docs/tools/debugging.md#L61) file.

## Intro

Tendermint Core is a fairly robust BFT replication engine. Unfortunately, as with other software, failures sometimes do happen. The question is then “what do you do” when the system deviates from the expected behavior.

> The first response is usually to take a look at the logs. By default, Tendermint writes logs to standard output ¹.

Reviewer: Since the footnote here isn't a link, it's probably better to just replace it with something like:

```suggestion
The first response is usually to take a look at the logs. By default, Tendermint writes logs to standard output, but alternatively you can redirect the output to a file or forward it to another server.
```

What if the Tendermint node will not start up due to inconsistent consensus state? 

When a node running the Tendermint consensus engine detects an inconsistent state 
it will crash the entire Tendermint process. 
The Tendermint consensus engine cannot be run in this inconsistent state and the so node
will fail to start up as a result.
The Tendermint RPC server can provide valuable information for debugging in this situation.
The Tendermint `inspect` command will run a subset of the Tendermint RPC server 
that is useful for debugging inconsistent state.

### Running inspect

Start up the `inspect` tool on the machine where Tendermint crashed using: 
```bash
tendermint inspect --home=</path/to/app.d>
```

`inspect` will use the data directory specified in your Tendermint configuration file.
`inspect` will also run the RPC server at the address specified in your Tendermint configuration file.

### Using inspect

With the `inspect` server running, you can access RPC endpoints that are critically important
for debugging.
Calling the `/status`, `/consensus_state` and `/dump_consensus_state` RPC endpoint 
will return useful information about the Tendermint consensus state.

> ## Outro
> 
> We’re hoping that these Tendermint tools will become de facto the first response for any accidents.
> 
> Let us know what your experience has been so far! Have you had a chance to try `tendermint debug` or `tendermint inspect` yet?
> 
> Join our [discord chat](https://discord.gg/vcExX9T), where we discuss the current issues and future improvements.
> 
> —
> 
> [1]: Of course, you’re free to redirect the Tendermint’s output to a file or forward it to another server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This section in particular makes this feel like a blog post to me.

Reviewer 2: Yeah this literally was a blog post that was added to the docs (https://medium.com/tendermint/rule-76-no-excuses-debug-like-a-champion-8ef42fc52786)

Author: Ah, I see what happened here. I can remove most of this. I added a section to this post about how to debug using the inspect command. I'll remove the other pieces to just maintain the section on how to debug with `inspect` and we can make a separate decision on the rest of the post.
